hi I'm dr. Ricardo Rodriguez and today I
want to talk to you about the issue of
implants and wrinkling I get on there
the implant forms quite a baton and I do
hear from some of my consult that people
are concerned about the issue of breast
implants and wrinkling now there are
some types of implants which do tend to
cause or actually have a little bit more
visible wrinkling and those are the
saline implants and you can see here
when you hold up just holding the
implant up you can see those wrinkles on
the surface and that's pretty much how
the implant behaves when it stuck on
your chest wall there will be some
wrinkling visible now does it show on
every patient no now we take the more
gel like silicone and you see that it's
still also wrinkles so gel implants are
not immune to wrinkle and as a matter of
fact I have one patient who's very
skinny with a very thin tissue cover
whose implant wrinkles and it's visible
okay now does every patient with
silicone have visible invisible
wrinkling no no there's another type of
implant that has even less wrinkling as
a matter of fact it's recommended for
patients with breast reconstruction who
have very little soft tissue cover and
that's a gummy bear implant it's a
stiffer kind of a silicone and this is
for example a Botox implant not a gummy
bear implant but you know the thickness
and consistency is similar in that it's
very stiff and it it doesn't wrinkle but
you know you pay a price the implant
does feel hard or it doesn't feel like a
nice soft breast
now the two things that really matter
then are the consistency of the soft
tissue cover and the material itself
know for example if you have thicker
skin and fat
you will tend to see wrinkling a little
bit less and muscles also are very
important because muscles have tone a
muscle is active and it forms a kind of
barrier to the wrinkling so that even
though the implant might be wrinkling
underneath if the muscle itself has some
tone you won't necessarily see them
wrinkling now let's take an illustration
of the chest wall here you know what do
people mean when they say that the
implant is under the muscle well you
know it's not really totally under the
muscle because the muscles are stuck to
the chest cage so it's impossible to fit
an implant totally underneath the muscle
so what we do is we make an incision
over here on the PEC major muscle to
slip the implant underneath it now in
the routine case that implant is only
really partially over the muscle in
other words it's covered on the top by
the muscle but below is not covered by
muscle it's just skin and whatever fatty
tissues you have underneath it no let's
take this mock-up of an implant in here
so here's an implant that's not wrinkled
or anything with its shell but let's say
here it wrinkles okay now if your skin
and fat is thin more or less like in
this line here and you see the wrinkle
will the skin is pretty much gonna
follow the wrinkle and and it's gonna be
very visible now if you have a thicker
skin up fat coverage well it's not gonna
show the wrinkle as much and you know of
course the more as fat and breast tissue
you have under the less amount of
wrinkling you're gonna be able to see
but you know you could still see it so
if you had a choice you would rather use
a silicone implant because it's not
gonna be seen as easily but you're not
totally immune to it now if you're
covering with muscle the muscle has
toned
it's active independently of what the
implant is doing so although you may
have a very thin skin and fat tissue
covered if you have a good muscle cover
it'll tend to camouflage the wrinkling
very well now for this reason
I have modified the way I do my quote
under the muscle unquote implants now
let's take for example here's the case
of the implant that's partially under
the muscle but then exposed in here
now what happens is the area that's
under the muscle is well covered so
these implants usually don't show much
wrinkling above which is okay because
most people when they're dressed that's
the area that's uncovered so they're
gonna have their implants not showing a
wrinkling however on the side where
there is very thin tissue coverage you
may see wrinkling not on the other hand
if the patient has a little bit more fat
and subcutaneous tissue you may not see
the wrinkling as much no let's take the
case of an implant that's under the
muscle in here I drew a wedge of where I
slip the implant underneath the serratus
muscles which are here and the external
oblique muscles and under the pectoralis
major muscle
so this implant is not totally under the
muscle but it's mostly under the muscle
okay so this is the only area that's
exposed but you know most of the breast
mass is in here and the nipple areolar
complex are here now what happens here
is that all the areas that might wrinkle
are covered by muscle and since the
muscle has tone it will tend to
camouflage it very well so I feel that
this technique is much better at
camouflaging wrinkles that the other
so-called soft muscular technique now
this technique you know like everything
it has a pros and cons now it does tend
to be a little bit more painful because
you elevate more muscle and that in a
sense is why you know I'm such a
proponent of pain pumps on the pain pump
takes care of the the so-called con of
this procedure which is the pain the
advantage of course
is that you have a much better soft
tissue cover for the implant no if you
have any questions that you feel I don't
have covered on in this little
presentation just you know write a
question underneath the blog post and
I'll answer it but in general when I do
my breast augmentations
I'd rather place my implant under the
muscle with this technique with creating
a muscle sling underneath that will tend
to hold the implant and at the same time
cover up the wrinkles
anyways thank you very much for having
listened to me and having been so
patient and keep the questions coming I
will answer them and have a great day
see you